Adds Reporting CLI documentation (#2170)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _dashboards/reporting-cli.md

- **SAML** – Authentication between an identity provider and a service provider. Use `-a saml`. Okta provides the SAML third-party authentication.
- **No auth** – No authentication. Use `-a none`. Authentication defaults to No auth if the `-a` flag is not specified.

To learn more about Amazon Cognito, see [What is Amazon Cognito?](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/what-is-amazon-cognito.html).

<!--
### Bypass authentication option

The reporting CLI tool allows you to integrate it into your own workflow or environment so that you can bypass authentication or potential security issues. For example, if you use the Reporting CLI tool within an AWS Lambda instance, no security issues would occur as long as you run the Reporting plugin in OpenSearch Dashboards. In this case, you would use "No auth" to bypass the authentication process. To specify "No Auth" use `--auth none` in your request. Lambda users should test to make sure they can bypass access to Dashboards without credentials using No Auth.  

To get a list of all options, see [Reporting CLI options](#reporting-cli-options).
-->

## Downloading and installing the Reporting CLI tool

> There are two options to get the Reporting CLI tool. It is registered with the npm software registry and it is available for download from the OpenSearch.org [Download & Get Started](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html) page. Refer to the following sections for individual instructions.

Author: Unfortunately, they can't download it from npm site though. They can only download it by running the npm command.

> There are two options to get the Reporting CLI tool. It is registered with the npm software registry and it is available for download from the OpenSearch.org [Download & Get Started](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html) page. Refer to the following sections for individual instructions.

Reviewer: We can replace "download and install" with "get", if that works.

To download and install the Reporting CLI from npm, run the following command to initiate installation:

```
npm i @opensearch-project/opensearch-reporting-cli
```

### Downloading and installing the Reporting CLI from OpenSearch.org

You can download the `opensearch-reporting-cli` tool from the OpenSearch.org [Command Line Tools](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html#command-line-tools) section.

Next, run the following command to install the .tar archive:

```
npm install -g opensearch-reporting-cli-1.0.0.tgz
```

## Creating and requesting a visualization report

First, you need to get the URL for the Dashboards visualization that you want to download as an image file or PDF.

To generate a visualization report, you need to specify the Dashboards URL.

Open the Dashboards visualization for which you want to generate a report, and select **Share >  Permalinks > Generate link as Shapshot > Short URL > Copy link** as shown in the following image.

![Copy link]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/dash-url.png)

You will need to add the URL with the `-u` argument when you request the report in the CLI.

### Example: Requesting a PNG file

> The following command requests a Dashboards report in PNG format with basic authentication and sends the report to an email address using Amazon SES:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following command requests a report in PNG format with basic authentication and sends the report to an email address using Amazon SES:
```

`--subject` | The email Subject text encased in quotes. | Can be any string. The default is "This is an email containing your dashboard report". | OPENSEARCH_EMAIL_SUBJECT
`-h`, `--help` | Specifies to display the list of optional arguments from the command line. | N/A

## Using environment variables with the Reporting CLI

Instead of explicitly providing values in the command line, you can save them as environment variables. The Reporting CLI reads environment variables from the current directory inside the project.

To set the environment variables in Linux, use the following command:

```
export NAME=VALUE
```

Each line should use the format `NAME=VALUE`.
Each line that starts with a hashtag (#) is considered to be a comment.
Quotation marks (") don't get any special handling.

Values from the command line argument have higher priority than the environment file. For example, if you add the file name as *test* in the *.env* file and also add the `--filename report` command option, the generated report's name will be *report*.
{: .note }

### Example: Requesting a PNG report with environment variables set

> The following command requests a dashboard report with basic authentication in PNG format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following command requests a report with basic authentication in PNG format:
```

```
opensearch-reporting-cli --url https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d --format png --auth basic --credentials admin:admin
```

Upon success, the report will download to the current directory.

### Using Amazon SES to request an email with a report attachment

To use Amazon SES as the email transport mechanism, the following prerequisites apply:

> - If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disabled temporarily. The sender's email address must be verified by [Amazon SES](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/). The [AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-welcome.html) is required to interact with Amazon SES. To configure basic settings used by the AWS CLI, see [Configuration basics](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html#cli-configure-quickstart-config) in the AWS Command Line Interface user guide.

Author: ![Screen Shot 2023-01-19 at 8 56 34 AM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/88908598/213508641-5c0c5a32-c96f-430d-bb2f-65f3cdb13cbc.png)

I'm not seeing "aws configure" section, the page title is "Configuration basics" exactly as specified in the link text.

---
layout: default
title: Create reports with the Reporting CLI
nav_order: 25
---

# Create reports with the Reporting CLI

> You can create Dashboard reports in PDF or PNG format programmatically with the Reporting CLI without using the OpenSearch Dashboards and the Reporting plugin. This provides automation for reporting that can be connected to email workflows.

Author: Thanks. 
- They are creating reports independently from OpenSearch Dashboards. there is no sub-feature to mention after "Dashboards." 
- Reports through the Dashboards requires the Reporting plugin, so "and" is appropriate.
- I've clarified the second sentence.

If you want to download a CSV file, you need to have the Reporting plugin installed.
{: .note }

For any Dashboard view you can request a report in PNG, or PDF format that is sent to an email address. This can be useful to send to multiple email recipients with an email alias. The Dashboard Discover view can provide a CSV report.

With the Reporting CLI, you can specify options for your report in the command line. The report is sent to an email address as a PDF attachment by default. You can also request a PNG image or a CSV file with the `--formats` argument, or embed the image in the email body instead of attaching it.

You can download the report to the directory that you run the Reporting CLI, or you can get the report emailed by specifying SES or SMTP for the email transport option.

You can connect to OpenSearch with any of the following authentication types:

- **Basic** – Basic HTTP authentication. Use `-a basic`.

> - **Cognito** – AWS Identity access with Amazon Cognito. Use `-a cognito`.

Author: AWS Identity (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/iam/?icmpid=docs_homepage_security) and
AWS Cognito are part of the Security, Identity and Compliance product group. See https://docs.aws.amazon.com/index.html. 

They can access AWS Identity services through Cognito as the authentication method. I've simplified it as "authentication through Amazon Cognito"

> - **Cognito** – AWS Identity access with Amazon Cognito. Use `-a cognito`.

Reviewer: The name of the service is AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM).

- **SAML** – Provides authentication between an identity provider and a service provider. Use `-a saml`. OKTA provides the SAML Third-party authentication.
- **No auth** – No authentication bypass authentication. Use `-a none`. It also defaults to No auth if `-a` flag is not specified.

To learn more about Amazon Cognito, see [What is Amazon Cognito?](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/what-is-amazon-cognito.html).

<!--
### Bypass authentication option

> The reporting CLI tool allows you to integrate it into your own workflow or environment so that you can bypass authentication or potential security issues. For example, if you use the Reporting CLI tool within an AWS Lambda instance, no security issues would occur as long as you run the Reporting plugin in OpenSearch Dashboards. In this case, you would use "No auth" to bypass the authentication process. To specify "No Auth" use `--auth none` in your request. Lambda users should test to make sure they can bypass access to Dashboards without credentials using No Auth.  

Author: correct. it was "paused" for next 2.6 release by the tech reviewer.

To get a list of all options, see [Reporting CLI options](#reporting-cli-options).
-->

## Download and install the Reporting CLI tool

> You can get the Reporting CLI tool from the NPM registry or from the OpenSearch Downloads page.

Author: Link is not necessary to NPM registry site. The tool is registered with NPM for download, so the user only needs to run the command to retrieve it from NPM.

> ### Install the Reporting CLI from NPM

Author: I've clarified the overview sentence so it's clear it's registered with npm, but they only need to run the command to get the file, they don't go to npm registry site.

To get the Reporting CLI from NPM, run the following command to initiate installation.

```
npm i @opensearch-project/opensearch-reporting-cli
```

### Install the Reporting CLI from OpenSearch.org

> You can download the `opensearch-reporting-cli` tool from the OpenSearch.org Downloads page, see [Command Line Tools](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html#command-line-tools).

Author: Yes. The link provided goes directly to the downloads page section for all command-line tools. 
I've clarified it to remove it as a "see" reference.

Upon success, the file will be sent to the specified email address.

![PDF example]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/cli-pdf-report.png)

### Example: Request a CSV file

The following command generates a report that contains all table content in CSV format, and sends the report using SES transport to an email address.

```
opensearch-reporting-cli -u https://search-basic-auth2-3-b477rrluhlckrmwmtvp6k3xxsi.us-west-2.es.amazonaws.com/_dashboards/goto/f166434919d2d8d3708a4705b6f2ed2d?security_tenant=global -f csv -a basic -c admin:Test1234 -e ses -s <email address> -r <email address>
```

Upon success, you will receive the email with the CSV file attached.

## Get help

To get a list of all available CLI arguments, run the following command.

``` 
$ opensearch-reporting-cli -h
```

## Reporting CLI options

You can use any of the following arguments with the `opensearch-reporting-cli` tool.

| Argument      | Description       | Acceptable values and usage | Environment variable
:--------------------- | :--- | :--- |
`-u`, `--url` | URL for the Dashboard visualization. | Obtain from OpenSearch Dashboards > Visualize > Share > Permalinks > Copy link. | OPENSEARCH_URL

> `-a`, `--auth` | Authentication type for the report. | You can specify either Basic `basic`, Cognito `cognito`, SAML `saml` or No Auth `none`. If no value is specified, it defaults to No auth. Basic, Cognito, and SAML require credentials with `-c` flag. | N/A

Author: The Reporting CLI would default to No authentication, type 'none'.

`-t`, `--tenant` | Tenants in OpenSearch dashboards. | The default tenant is private.| N/A
`-f`, `--format` | File format for the report. | Can be either `pdf`, `png`, or `csv`. The default is `pdf`.| N/A
`-w`, `--width` | Window width in pixels for the report. | Default is `1680`.| N/A
`-l`, `--height` | Minimum window height in pixels for the report. | Default is `600`. | N/A
`-n`, `--filename` | File name of the report. | Default is `reporting`. | OPENSEARCH_FILENAME
`-e`, `--transport` | Transport for sending the email. | For Amazon SES specify `ses`. SES requires an AWS config on your system to store the credentials. For SMTP use `smtp` and also specify the login credentials with `--smtpusername` and `--smtppassword`. | OPENSEARCH_TRANSPORT
`-s`, `--from` | The email address of the sender. | For example, `user@amazon.com`. | OPENSEARCH_FROM
`-r`, `--to` | The email address of the recipient. | For example, `user@amazon.com`. | OPENSEARCH_TO
`--smtphost` | The hostname of the SMTP server. | For example, `SMTP_HOST`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_HOST
`--smtpport` | The port for connection. | For example, `SMTP_PORT`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_PORT

> `--smtpsecure` | Use TLS when connecting to server. | For example, `SMTP_SECURE`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_SECURE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`--smtpsecure` | Use TLS when connecting to the server. | For example, `SMTP_SECURE`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_SECURE
```

`--smtpusername` | The SMTP username.| For example, `SMTP_USERNAME`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_USERNAME
`--smtppassword` | The SMTP password.| For example, `SMTP_PASSWORD`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_PASSWORD

> `--subject` | Email Subject text encased in quotes. | Can be any string. The default is "This is an email containing your dashboard report". | OPENSEARCH_EMAIL_SUBJECT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`--subject` | The email subject text encased in quotes. | Can be any string. The default is "This is an email containing your dashboard report". | OPENSEARCH_EMAIL_SUBJECT
```

> `-h`, `--help` | Display list of optional arguments from the command line. | N/A

Reviewer: "Specifies to display the list..."?

> ## Use environment variables with Reporting CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using environment variables with the Reporting CLI
```

Instead of explicitly providing values in the command line, you can save them as environment variables. The Reporting CLI reads environment variables from the current directory inside the project.

> To set the environment variables on Linux, use the following command. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set the environment variables in Linux, use the following command: 
```

```
export NAME=VALUE
```

> Each line should have the format `NAME=VALUE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each line should use the format `NAME=VALUE`.
```

> Each line that starts with a hashtag (#) is considered as a comment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each line that starts with a hashtag (#) is considered to be a comment.
```

Quotation marks (") don't get any special handling.

> Values from the command line argument have higher priority than the environment file. For example, if you add filename as *test* in *.env* file and also add `--filename report` command option, the generated report's name will be *report*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Values from the command line argument have higher priority than the environment file. For example, if you add the file name as *test* in the *.env* file and also add the `--filename report` command option, the generated report's name will be *report*.
```

Reviewer: Confirm that the articles I added make sense.

{: .note }

> ### Example: Request a PNG report with environment variables set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Requesting a PNG report with environment variables set
```

> The following command requests a dashboard report with basic authentication in png format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following command requests a dashboard report with basic authentication in PNG format:
```

```
opensearch-reporting-cli --url https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d --format png --auth basic --credentials admin:admin
```

Upon success, the report will download to the current directory.

> ### Use Amazon SES to request an email with a report attachment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using Amazon SES to request an email with a report attachment
```

To use Amazon SES as the email transport mechanism, the following prerequisites apply:

> - If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disable temporarily. The sender's email address must be verified on [Amazon SES](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disabled temporarily. The sender's email address must be verified by [Amazon SES](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/).
```

> - If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disable temporarily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disabled temporarily.
```

Reviewer: It looks like this sentence is a duplicate of the preceding one.

>  [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-welcome.html) is required to interact with Amazon SES.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-welcome.html) is required to interact with Amazon SES.
```

>  [Configure](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html#cli-configure-quickstart-config) basic settings used by AWS CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 [Configure](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html#cli-configure-quickstart-config) basic settings used by the AWS CLI.
```

Author: yes. see updated direct link to AWS CLI user guide.

> - SES transport requires the `ses:SendRawEmail` role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Amazon SES transport requires the `ses:SendRawEmail` role:
```

```
{
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": "ses:SendRawEmail",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

The following command requests an email with the report attached:

```
opensearch-reporting-cli --url https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d --transport ses --from <sender_email_id> --to <recipient_email_id>
```

> The following command uses default values for all other options. You can also set `OPENSEARCH_FROM`, `OPENSEARCH_TO`, and `OPENSEARCH_TRANSPORT` in .env file and use following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following command uses default values for all other options. You can also set `OPENSEARCH_FROM`, `OPENSEARCH_TO`, and `OPENSEARCH_TRANSPORT` in the .env file and use the following command:
```

Reviewer: Confirm that the first article I added makes sense (that it should not be "an" or "your").

```
opensearch-reporting-cli --url https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d
```

> To modify the body of your email, you can simply edit *index.hbs* file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify the body of your email, you can simply edit the *index.hbs* file.
```

> ### Example: Send a report to email with SMTP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Sending a report to an email address with SMTP
```

> To send a report through email with SMTP transport, you need to set the options `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_HOST`, `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_PORT`, `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_USER`, `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_PASSWORD`, `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_SECURE` in your .env file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send a report to an email address with SMTP transport, you need to set the options `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_HOST`, `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_PORT`, `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_USER`, `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_PASSWORD`, and `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_SECURE` in your .env file.
```

> Once the transport options are set in .env file, you can send the email using the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the transport options are set in your .env file, you can send the email using the following command:
```

```
opensearch-reporting-cli --url https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d --transport smtp --from <sender_email_id> --to <recipient_email_id>
```

> You can choose to set options using *.env* file or the command line argument values in any combination. Make sure to specify all required values to avoid getting errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose to set options using either your *.env* file or the command line argument values in any combination. Make sure to specify all required values to avoid errors.
```

> To modify the body of your email, you can simply edit *index.hbs* file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify the body of your email, you can edit the *index.hbs* file.
```

## Environment variable limitations

The following limitations apply to environment variable usage with the Reporting CLI:

> - Supported platforms are Windows x86, Windows x64, Mac Intel, Mac ARM, Linux x86, Linux x64.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supported platforms are Windows x86, Windows x64, Mac Intel, Mac ARM, Linux x86, and Linux x64.
```

>   For any other platform, users can take advantage of *CHROMIUM_PATH* environment variable to use custom chromium.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For any other platform, users can take advantage of the *CHROMIUM_PATH* environment variable to use custom Chromium.
```

> - If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disable temporarily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disabled temporarily.
```

>   bash: `set +H`

Reviewer: Should this and the next item be second-level bullets?

  zsh: `setopt nobanghist`

>   Alternatively, you can add a URL value as an environment variable with the following format `URL="<url-with-!>"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Alternatively, you can add a URL value as an environment variable using this format: `URL="<url-with-!>"`.
```

- All command options only accept lowercase letters.

## Troubleshooting

> To resolve **MessageRejected: Email address is not verified**, see [Why am I getting a 400 "message rejected" error with the message "Email address is not verified" from Amazon SES?](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/ses-554-400-message-rejected-error/) in AWS Knowledge Center.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve **MessageRejected: Email address is not verified**, see [Why am I getting a 400 "message rejected" error with the message "Email address is not verified" from Amazon SES?](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/ses-554-400-message-rejected-error/) in the AWS Knowledge Center.
```

- **No auth** – No authentication bypass authentication. Use `-a none`. It also defaults to No auth if `-a` flag is not specified.

To learn more about Amazon Cognito, see [What is Amazon Cognito?](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/what-is-amazon-cognito.html).

<!--
### Bypass authentication option

The reporting CLI tool allows you to integrate it into your own workflow or environment so that you can bypass authentication or potential security issues. For example, if you use the Reporting CLI tool within an AWS Lambda instance, no security issues would occur as long as you run the Reporting plugin in OpenSearch Dashboards. In this case, you would use "No auth" to bypass the authentication process. To specify "No Auth" use `--auth none` in your request. Lambda users should test to make sure they can bypass access to Dashboards without credentials using No Auth.  

To get a list of all options, see [Reporting CLI options](#reporting-cli-options).
-->

## Download and install the Reporting CLI tool

You can get the Reporting CLI tool from the NPM registry or from the OpenSearch Downloads page.
### Install the Reporting CLI from NPM

> To download the .tar archive and install the reporting tool with NPM, run the following command.

Reviewer 2: Download will not be required when cli is published to npm. I think after publishing this tool on npm users can directly run 
```npm i @opensearch-project/opensearch-reporting-cli```
Ref: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opensearch-project/oui

Author: thanks

To download the Reporting CLI .tar archive and install it, run the following command.

```
npm install opensearch-reporting-cli
```

### Install the Reporting CLI from OpenSearch.org

You can download the `opensearch-reporting-cli` tool from the OpenSearch.org Downloads page, see [Command Line Tools](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html#command-line-tools).

Next, run the following command to install the .tar archive.

```

> npm install -g opensearch-reporting-cli.tar.gz

Reviewer 2: can we please change this to `npm install -g opensearch-reporting-cli-1.0.0.tgz` 
`npm pack` is adding version to artifact and it has tgz as default extension.

Author: ok thanks!

---
layout: default
title: Create reports with the Reporting CLI
nav_order: 25
---

# Create reports with the Reporting CLI

> You can create Dashboard reports programmatically with the Reporting CLI without using the OpenSearch Dashboards and the Reporting plugin. This provides automation for reporting that can be connected to email workflows.

Reviewer 3: I believe that CSV requires the Reporting plugin to be installed. @rupal-bq to confirm.

Reviewer 2: yes, reporting plugin should be installed for csv reports

> For any Dashboard view you can request a report in CSV, PNG, or PDF format that is sent to an email address. This can be useful to send to multiple email recipients with an email alias.

Reviewer 2: pdf, png can work with any webpage but for csv works only with discover page and limitations for csv are same as reporting plugin. Ref: https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/dashboards/reporting/

You can download the report to the directory that you run the Reporting CLI, or you can get the report emailed by specifying SES or SMTP for the email transport option.

If you want to download a CSV file, you need to have the Reporting plugin installed.
{: .note }

You can connect to OpenSearch with any of the following authentication types:

- **Basic** – Basic HTTP authentication. Use `-a basic`.
- **Cognito** – AWS Identity access with Amazon Cognito. Use `-a cognito`.
- **SAML** – Provides authentication between an identity provider and a service provider. Use `-a saml`. OKTA provides the SAML Third-party authentication.
- **No auth** – No authentication bypass authentication. Use `-a none`. It also defaults to No auth if `-a` flag is not specified.

To learn more about Amazon Cognito, see [What is Amazon Cognito?](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/what-is-amazon-cognito.html).
### Bypass authentication option

> The reporting CLI tool allows you to integrate it into your own workflow or environment so that you can bypass authentication or potential security issues. For example, if you use the Reporting CLI tool within an AWS Lambda instance, no security issues would occur as long as you run the Reporting plugin in OpenSearch Dashboards. In this case, you would use "No auth" to bypass the authentication process. To specify "No Auth" use `--auth none` in your request. Lambda users should test to make sure they can bypass access to Dashboards without credentials using No Auth.  

Reviewer 2: is there any reference for bypass authentication? Need to test this.

Author: this information was provided in the feature brief. who can verify this was tested?

Author: commenting out this section until we get confirmation it works. thanks

Reviewer 2: I'll test this. We can remove comment after testing. Thanks!

```
npm install opensearch-reporting-cli
```

### Install the Reporting CLI from OpenSearch.org

You can download the `opensearch-reporting-cli` tool from the OpenSearch.org Downloads page, see [Command Line Tools](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html#command-line-tools).

Next, run the following command to install the .tar archive.

```
npm install -g opensearch-reporting-cli.tar.gz
```

## Create and request a visualization report

First, you need to get the URL for the Dashboards visualization that you want to download as an image file or PDF.

To generate a visualization report, you need to specify the Dashboards URL.

Open the Dashboards visualization of which you want to generate a report, and select **Share >  Permalinks > Generate link as Shapshot > Short URL > Copy link**.

![Copy link]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/dash-url.png)

You will need to add the URL with the `-u` argument when you request the report in the CLI.

### Example: Request a PNG file

The following command shows how to request an OpenSearch Dashboards report in PNG format with basic authentication and send the report via SES to an email address:

> ```

Reviewer 2: Example should probably use localhost url which works with default opensearch installation.

Author: ok thanks. can copy from other example with local host:5601

> opensearch-reporting-cli -u https://search-basic-auth2-3-b477rrluhlckrmwmtvp6k3xxsi.us-west-2.es.amazonaws.com/_dashboards/goto/069af6d6f3294421ec163b07fef91e5d?security_tenant=global -a basic -c admin:1234 -e ses -s user@amazon.com -r user@amazon.com -f png

Reviewer 2: maybe `<email-id>` or some other placeholder instead of `user@amazon.com`

Author: ok

```

### Example: Request a PDF file

The following command requests a PDF file and specifies the email address for the recipient.

```
opensearch-reporting-cli -u https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d -a basic -c admin:Test@1234 -e ses -s user@domain.com -r user@domain.com -f pdf
```

Upon success, the file will be sent to the specified email address.

![PDF example]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/cli-pdf-report.png)

### Example: Request a CSV file

The following command generates a report that contains all table content in CSV format, and sends the report using SES transport to an email address.

```
opensearch-reporting-cli -u https://search-basic-auth2-3-b477rrluhlckrmwmtvp6k3xxsi.us-west-2.es.amazonaws.com/_dashboards/goto/f166434919d2d8d3708a4705b6f2ed2d?security_tenant=global -f csv -a basic -c admin:Test1234 -e ses -s user@amazon.com -r user@amazon.com
```

Upon success, you will receive the email with the CSV file attached.

> <!--Question for eng: Is the rest of the command similar to the other examples with exception of "-a cognito" specified for authentication? If so, perhaps we don't need this example.

Reviewer 2: sure, we can skip this example. Supported auth options are already mentioned above.

### Example: Request a report with Cognito authentication

The following command generates a report for download to the directory that you run the CLI command.

```
opensearch-reporting-cli 
```

Upon success, you will see "Report downloaded" in the command line.
-->

## Get help

To get a list of all available CLI arguments, run the following command.

``` 
$ opensearch-reporting-cli -h
```

## Reporting CLI options

You can use any of the following arguments with the `opensearch-reporting-cli` tool.

| Argument      | Description       | Acceptable values and usage | Environment variable
:--------------------- | :--- | :--- |
`-u`, `--url` | URL for the Dashboard visualization. | Obtain from OpenSearch Dashboards > Visualize > Share > Permalinks > Copy link. | URL

> `-a`, `--auth` | Authentication type for the report. | You can specify either Basic `basic`, Cognito `cognito`, SAML `saml` or No Auth `none`. If no value is specified, it defaults to No auth. Cognito and SAML require credentials with `-c` flag. | N/A

Reviewer 2: basic also need credentials

`-c`, `--credentials` | OpenSearch login credentials. | Enter username and password separated by a colon. For example, username:password. Required for Cognito and SAML auth types. | USERNAME and PASSWORD

> `-t`, `--tenant` | Tenants in OpenSearch dashboards. | The default tenant is global.| N/A

Reviewer 2: I recently noticed `private` is default tenant in website so I changed default tenant to private in this [PR](https://github.com/opensearch-project/reporting-cli/pull/5/files#diff-2237fab1cd95514388b409d01aedefad56e149e4a27b50969d32a4a1da6a6cf5)

`-s`, `--from` | The email address of the sender. | For example, `user@amazon.com`. | FROM
`-r`, `--to` | The email address of the recipient. | For example, `user@amazon.com`. | TO
`--smtphost` | The hostname of the SMTP server. | For example, `SMTP_HOST`. | SMTP_HOST
`--smtpport` | The port for connection. | For example, `SMTP_PORT`. | SMTP_PORT
`--smtpsecure` | Use TLS when connecting to server. | For example, `SMTP_SECURE`. | SMTP_SECURE
`--smtpusername` | The SMTP username.| For example, `SMTP_USERNAME`. | SMTP_USERNAME
`--smtppassword` | The SMTP password.| For example, `SMTP_PASSWORD`. | SMTP_PASSWORD
`--subject` | Email Subject text encased in quotes. | Can be any string. The default is "This is an email containing your dashboard report". | SUBJECT
`-h`, `--help` | Display list of optional arguments from the command line. | N/A

## Use environment variables with Reporting CLI

Instead of explicitly providing values in the command line, you can save them as environment variables. The Reporting CLI reads environment variables from .env file inside the project.

```
.

> Reporting

Reviewer 2: Please remove file this structure. My doc isn't updated. `.env` file can be in current directory. Also `.env` file isn't necessary to set environment variables. e.g. on linux we can use
```
export NAME=VALUE
```

├── src
│   └── .env
```

Each line should have the format NAME=VALUE.
Each line that starts with a hashtag (#) is considered as a comment.
Quotation marks (") don't get any special handling.

Values from the command line argument have higher priority than the environment file. For example, if you add filename as *test* in *.env* file and also add `--filename report` command option, the generated report's name will be *report*.
{: .note }

### Example: Request a PNG report with environment variables set

The following command requests a dashboard report with basic authentication in png format.

```
opensearch-reporting-cli --url https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d --format png --auth basic --credentials admin:admin
```

Upon success, the report will download to the current directory.

### Use Amazon SES to request an email with a report attachment

To use Amazon SES as the email transport mechanism, the following prerequisites apply:

- If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disable temporarily. The sender's email address must be verified on [Amazon SES](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/).

> - If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disable temporarily.

Reviewer 2: This seems repeated few times `If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disable temporarily.` Not sure if it's intentional. Also it's not relevant to SES.

```
opensearch-reporting-cli --url https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d
```

To modify the body of your email, you can simply edit *index.hbs* file.

### Example: Send a report to email with SMTP

To send a report through email with SMTP transport, you need to set the options `SMTP_HOST`, `SMTP_PORT`, `SMTP_USER`, `SMTP_PASSWORD`, `SMTP_SECURE` in your .env file.

Once the transport options are set in .env file, you can send the email using the following command.

```
opensearch-reporting-cli --url https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d --transport smtp --from <sender_email_id> --to <recipient_email_id>
```

You can choose to set options using *.env* file or the command line argument values in any combination. Make sure to specify all required values to avoid getting errors.

To modify the body of your email, you can simply edit *index.hbs* file.

## Environment variable limitations

The following limitations apply to environment variable usage with the Reporting CLI:

> - If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disable temporarily.

Reviewer 2: this can be removed. `If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disable temporarily.`

 Supported platforms are Windows x86, Windows x64, Mac Intel, Mac ARM, Linux x86, Linux x64.
  
  For any other platform, users can take advantage of *CHROMIUM_PATH* environment variable to use custom chromium.

- If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disable temporarily.

  bash: `set +H`

  zsh: `setopt nobanghist`

  Alternatively, you can add a URL value as an environment variable with the following format `URL="<url-with-!>"`.

- All command options only accept lowercase letters.

## Troubleshooting

> To resolve **MessageRejected: Email address is not verified**, see [check](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/ses-554-400-message-rejected-error/) in AWS Knowledge Center.

Reviewer 2: see is not required here. already has check.

Author: oh that's just our style guideline. 
we use 
",see [Name of page](URL)."

---
layout: default
title: Reporting CLI
nav_order: 25
---

# Reporting CLI

> You can download OpenSearch Dashboards reports directly through the reporting CLI. You don't need to use the OpenSearch Dashboards or the Reporting plugin to download reports. You choose the file format that you want and specify either PNG, PDF or CSV file format with the `--formats` argument.

Reviewer 2: For CSV reports, the reporting plugin should be installed. Not sure don't need to use reporting plugin implies, user can uninstall the plugin.

> You can download OpenSearch Dashboards reports directly through the reporting CLI. You don't need to use the OpenSearch Dashboards, or the Reporting plugin to download reports. You choose the file format that you want, and specify either PNG, PDF or CSV file format with the `--formats` argument.

Reviewer 4: No need for comma.
"... use the OpenSearch Dashboards or the Reporting plugin ..."
"... choose the file format that you want and specify either PNG ..."

You can also send an email with the report file attached to it.

You can connect to OpenSearch with either of the following authentication types:

* Basic
* Cognito
* SAML
* No auth

> The reporting CLI tool allows you to integrate it into your own workflow or environment so that you can bypass authentication or potential security issues. For example, if you use the reporting CLI tool within an AWS Lambda instance, there are no security issues that would occur if you ran the Reporting plugin in OpenSearch Dashboards.

Reviewer 4: Is this an example of connecting to OpenSearch by choosing "No auth" as the authentication type? If yes, it might be helpful to make the connection between "No auth" and the method of bypassing authentication as one and the same (just make clear that this information is describing the "No auth" choice).

Author: yes, great suggestion! thanks

> The reporting CLI tool allows you to integrate it into your own workflow or environment so that you can bypass authentication or potential security issues. For example, if you use the reporting CLI tool within an AWS Lambda instance, there are no security issues that would occur if you ran the Reporting plugin in OpenSearch Dashboards. In this case, you would use "No auth" to bypass the authentication process. Specify `--auth none` in your request. To get a list of all options, see [Command-line Options](https://github.com/opensearch-project/dashboards-reporting/reporting-cli/docs/user/Reference Manual.md) in the GitHub Reference Manual.

Reviewer 5: Suggestion: "For example, if you use the reporting CLI tool within an AWS Lambda instance, no security issues would occur as long as you run the Reporting plugin in Dashboards."

> The reporting CLI tool allows you to integrate it into your own workflow or environment so that you can bypass authentication or potential security issues. For example, if you use the reporting CLI tool within an AWS Lambda instance, there are no security issues that would occur if you ran the Reporting plugin in OpenSearch Dashboards. In this case, you would use "No auth" to bypass the authentication process. Specify `--auth none` in your request. To get a list of all options, see [Command-line Options](https://github.com/opensearch-project/dashboards-reporting/reporting-cli/docs/user/Reference Manual.md) in the GitHub Reference Manual.

Reviewer 5: Global comment: For consistency, use the proper name throughout documentation. Should it be "reporting-cli tool" or "reporting CLI tool?"

> The reporting CLI tool allows you to integrate it into your own workflow or environment so that you can bypass authentication or potential security issues. For example, if you use the reporting CLI tool within an AWS Lambda instance, there are no security issues that would occur if you ran the Reporting plugin in OpenSearch Dashboards. In this case, you would use "No auth" to bypass the authentication process. Specify `--auth none` in your request. To get a list of all options, see [Command-line Options](https://github.com/opensearch-project/dashboards-reporting/reporting-cli/docs/user/Reference Manual.md) in the GitHub Reference Manual.

Reviewer 2: The link to command-line option will change. Reporting-CLI code will move to https://github.com/opensearch-project/reporting-cli repo. Also, bypass authentication with `--auth none` will work if from lambda user can access dashboard without credentials but need to test this once.

> To get started with the reporting-cli tool, see [Developer Guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/dashboards-reporting/reporting-cli/docs/dev/DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md).

Reviewer 5: See preceding comment.

Reviewer 2: Link to dev guide will also change to new repo

{: .tip }

#### Example: Download a report in PNG format with basic authentication

> The following command shows how to download an OpenSearch Dashboards report in PNG format with basic authentication:

Reviewer 5: Suggestion: "Use the following command to download a Dashboards report..."

Reviewer 2: `reporting` will change to `opensearch-reporting-cli`.

If cron is not installed by default, run the following command:

```
sudo apt install cron
```

### Step 1: Install the reporting CLI

Install the Reporting CLI by running the following command:

```
npm i @opensearch-project/opensearch-reporting-cli
```

Open the crontab editor by running the following command:

```
crontab -e
```
In the crontab editor, enter the report request. For example, the following example shows a cron report that runs every day at 8am.

```
0 8 * * * opensearch-reporting-cli -u https://playground.opensearch.org/app/dashboards#/view/084aed50-6f48-11ed-a3d5-1ddbf0afc873 -e ses -s <sender_email> -r <recipient_email>
```

## Using AWS Lambda
You can use AWS Lambda with the Reporting CLI tool. <need info on why they would use it>.

### Prerequisites

To use the Reporting CLI with AWS Lambda, you need to do the following preliminary steps.

- Get an AWS account. For instructions, see [Creating an AWS account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/accounts/latest/reference/manage-acct-creating.html) in the AWS Account Management reference guide.
- Get a docker file to assemble an image.

You can use the following sample configurations to set up and assemble the image:

> ```linux

Reviewer 2: Use dockerfile instead of linux. Also please update dockerfile content with [updated] example. (https://github.com/opensearch-project/reporting-cli/blob/main/docs/examples/lambda_container_image.md)

# Note: this installs the necessary libs to make the bundled version of Chromium that Puppeteer
# installs, work.
RUN apt-get update \
    && apt-get install -y wget gnupg \
    && wget -q -O - https://dl-ssl.google.com/linux/linux_signing_key.pub | apt-key add - \
    && sh -c 'echo "deb [arch=amd64] http://dl.google.com/linux/chrome/deb/ stable main" >> /etc/apt/sources.list.d/google.list' \
    && apt-get update \
    && apt-get install -y google-chrome-stable fonts-ipafont-gothic fonts-wqy-zenhei fonts-thai-tlwg fonts-kacst fonts-freefont-ttf libxss1 \
      --no-install-recommends \
    && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*
ENTRYPOINT ["/usr/local/bin/npx", "aws-lambda-ric"]
ENV IS_LAMBDA=true
ENV HOME="/tmp"
CMD [ "/function/index.handler" ]

```

### Step 1: Create a repository with Amazon ECR

Follow the instructions in the Amazon ECR user guide to create a repository with the name `opensearch-reporting-cli`.

To learn more about using the Amazon ECR, see [Getting started with Amazon ECR using the AWS Management Console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/getting-started-console.html).

> ### Step 2: Run the <?> commands

Reviewer 2: Command to build container image is `docker build -t opensearch-reporting-cli .`

In the AWS ECR console, choose **view push command**.
Locate the 4 commands in the Dockerfile directory.

### Step 3: Create a lambda function with the container image

Go to **Lambda function > Configuration > General configuration> Edit timeout** and set the timeout in lambda to 5 minutes.

> Set the memory size to 4096.

Reviewer 2: Please change 4096 to "at least 1024MB"

*(Optional):* If you are using Amazon SES, you need to set the following user permissions:

```json
{
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "ses:SendEmail",
                "ses:SendRawEmail"
            ],
            "Resource": "<arn of ses resource>"
        }
```

> Next, test the function with the following required values in the event JSON file:

Reviewer 2: This was just example. Values are not required in JSON file. User can provide values with either json file or using env var in lambda.

```json
{
  "url": "https://playground.opensearch.org/app/dashboards#/view/084aed50-6f48-11ed-a3d5-1ddbf0afc873",
  "transport": "ses",
  "from": "<sender_email>",
  "to": "<recipient_email>",
  "subject": "Test lambda docker image"
}
```

> ### Step 4: Add the trigger to <what does trigger do?>

Reviewer 2: trigger executes the lambda function

Author: ok to say "start" the AWS Lambda function?

Set the trigger to initiate <need info why do they set the trigger?>.

For example, you can set a CloudWatchEvents Rule to set a trigger.

## Getting help

To get a list of all available CLI arguments, run the following command:

``` 
$ opensearch-reporting-cli -h
```

## Reporting CLI options

You can use any of the following arguments with the `opensearch-reporting-cli` tool.

| Argument      | Description       | Acceptable values and usage | Environment variable
:--------------------- | :--- | :--- |
`-u`, `--url` | The URL for the visualization. | Obtain from OpenSearch Dashboards > Visualize > Share > Permalinks > Copy link. | OPENSEARCH_URL
`-a`, `--auth` | The authentication type for the report. | You can specify either Basic `basic`, Cognito `cognito`, SAML `saml`, or No Auth `none`. If no value is specified, the Reporting CLI tool defaults to no authentication, type `none`. Basic, Cognito, and SAML require credentials with the `-c` flag. | N/A

> `-c`, `--credentials` | The OpenSearch login credentials. | Enter your username and password separated by a colon. For example, username:password. Required for Cognito and SAML authentication types. | OPENSEARCH_USERNAME and OPENSEARCH_PASSWORD

Reviewer 2: credentials are required for basic auth as well.

---
layout: default
title: Creating reports with the Reporting CLI
nav_order: 75
---

# Creating reports with the Reporting CLI

You can programmatically create dashboard reports in PDF or PNG format with the Reporting CLI without using OpenSearch Dashboards or the Reporting plugin. This allows you to create reports automatically within your email workflows.

If you want to download a CSV file, you need to have the Reporting plugin installed.
{: .note }

For any dashboard view, you can request a report in PNG or PDF format to be sent to an email address. This can be useful for sending reports to multiple email recipients with an email alias. The only dashboard view that supports creating a CSV report is the **Discover** view.

> With the Reporting CLI, you can specify options for your report in the command line. The report is sent to an email address as a PDF attachment by default. You can also request a PNG image or a CSV file with the `--formats` argument or embed the image in the email body instead of attaching it.

Reviewer 2: can we remove `or embed the image in the email body instead of attaching it.` ? After adding email template, report will be embedded in email for quick view and also as attachment.

To get a list of all options, see [Reporting CLI options](#reporting-cli-options).
-->

## Downloading and installing the Reporting CLI tool

You can download and install the Reporting CLI tool from either the npm software registry or the OpenSearch.org [Download & Get Started](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html) page. Refer to the following sections for instructions.

To learn more about the npm software registry, see the [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-npm) documentation.

### Downloading and installing the Reporting CLI from npm

To download and install the Reporting CLI from npm, run the following command to initiate installation:

```
npm i @opensearch-project/opensearch-reporting-cli
```

### Downloading and installing the Reporting CLI from OpenSearch.org

> You can download the `opensearch-reporting-cli` tool from the OpenSearch.org [Command Line Tools](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html#command-line-tools) section.

Reviewer 2: this link is not correct. it's for `opensearch-cli`.

Author: thanks. Could you provide correct link? or is it still in development.

You will need to add the URL with the `-u` argument when you request the report in the CLI.

### Example: Requesting a PNG file

The following command requests a report in PNG format with basic authentication and sends the report to an email address using Amazon SES:

```
opensearch-reporting-cli -u https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d -a basic -c admin:1234 -e ses -s <email address>  -r <email address> -f png
```

### Example: Requesting a PDF file

The following command requests a PDF file and specifies the recipient's email address:

```
opensearch-reporting-cli -u https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d -a basic -c admin:Test@1234 -e ses -s <email address> -r <email address> -f pdf
```

Upon success, the file will be sent to the specified email address. The following image shows an example PDF report.

![PDF example]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/cli-pdf-report.png)

### Example: Requesting a CSV file

The following command generates a report that contains all table content in CSV format and sends the report to an email address using Amazon SES transport:

```

> opensearch-reporting-cli -u https://search-basic-auth2-3-b477rrluhlckrmwmtvp6k3xxsi.us-west-2.es.amazonaws.com/_dashboards/goto/f166434919d2d8d3708a4705b6f2ed2d?security_tenant=global -f csv -a basic -c admin:Test1234 -e ses -s <email address> -r <email address>

Reviewer 2: can we change this example to localhost/playground. This is my test domain info which might be deleted later.

Author: could you please share that link? thanks

Author: got it!

```

Upon success, the email will be sent to the specified email address with the CSV file attached.

## Automatically run reports with a cron job

You can run reports automatically by setting up a cron job. OpenSearch Reporting CLI supports any cron job use case, such as setting a specified time of day.

### Prerequisites

> You need a machine with Ubuntu and root access privileges.

Reviewer 2: Cron is supported on Unix-like operating systems and looks like windows also have some workaround https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7195503/setting-up-a-cron-job-in-windows

Any system with cron installed and root access should work

Author: ok thanks

If cron is not installed by default, run the following command:

```

> sudo apt install cron

Reviewer 2: I think this is not necessary as it's os specific

Author: perfect, thanks!

```
0 8 * * * opensearch-reporting-cli -u https://playground.opensearch.org/app/dashboards#/view/084aed50-6f48-11ed-a3d5-1ddbf0afc873 -e ses -s <sender_email> -r <recipient_email>
```

## Using AWS Lambda

You can use AWS Lambda with the Reporting CLI tool.

### Prerequisites

To use the Reporting CLI with AWS Lambda, you need to do the following preliminary steps.

- Get an AWS account. For instructions, see [Creating an AWS account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/accounts/latest/reference/manage-acct-creating.html) in the AWS Account Management reference guide.
- Get a Dockerfile to assemble an image. For Docker instructions, see [Dockerfile reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/).
- Set up an Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR). For instructions, see [Getting started with Amazon ECR using the AWS Management Console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/getting-started-console.html).

### Step 1: Create a Dockerfile with setup and image assembly configurations

Copy the following sample configurations to set up and assemble the image into a Dockerfile.

> ```json

Reviewer 2: use ```dockerfile instead of json

    && apt-get update \
    && apt-get install -y google-chrome-stable fonts-ipafont-gothic fonts-wqy-zenhei fonts-thai-tlwg fonts-kacst fonts-freefont-ttf libxss1 \
      --no-install-recommends \
    && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*
ENTRYPOINT ["/usr/local/bin/npx", "aws-lambda-ric"]
ENV IS_LAMBDA=true
ENV HOME="/tmp"
CMD [ "/function/index.handler" ]

```

### Step 2: Create a repository with Amazon ECR

Follow the instructions in the Amazon ECR user guide to create a repository with the name `opensearch-reporting-cli`.

Go to [Getting started with Amazon ECR using the AWS Management Console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/getting-started-console.html) and follow both procedures.

Navigate to the test function **Configuration** tab to modify two required settings:
- Make sure to set **Timeout** to at least 5 minutes to allow the reporting CLI to generate the report.
- Change the setting for **Ephemeral storage** to 1024MB. The default setting is not a sufficient storage amount.
{: .note }

### Step 3: Run the push commands

In the AWS ECR console, choose **view push command**.

> Locate the 4 commands in the Dockerfile directory, and select them all.

Reviewer 2: maybe something like Run all 4 commands sequentially in the same directory where above Dockerfile exist?
Users will run into errors if the Dockerfile is not in same directory

:--------------------- | :--- | :--- |
`-u`, `--url` | The URL for the visualization. | Obtain from OpenSearch Dashboards > Visualize > Share > Permalinks > Copy link. | OPENSEARCH_URL
`-a`, `--auth` | The authentication type for the report. | You can specify either Basic `basic`, Cognito `cognito`, SAML `saml`, or No Auth `none`. If no value is specified, the Reporting CLI tool defaults to no authentication, type `none`. Basic, Cognito, and SAML require credentials with the `-c` flag. | N/A
`-c`, `--credentials` | The OpenSearch login credentials. | Enter your username and password separated by a colon. For example, username:password. Required for Cognito and SAML authentication types. | OPENSEARCH_USERNAME and OPENSEARCH_PASSWORD
`-t`, `--tenant` | The tenants in OpenSearch Dashboards. | The default tenant is private.| N/A
`-f`, `--format` | The file format for the report. | Can be either `pdf`, `png`, or `csv`. The default is `pdf`.| N/A
`-w`, `--width` | The window width in pixels for the report. | Default is `1680`.| N/A
`-l`, `--height` | The minimum window height in pixels for the report. | Default is `600`. | N/A

> `-n`, `--filename` | The file name of the report. | Default is `reporting`. | OPENSEARCH_FILENAME

Reviewer 2: default filename changed to opensearch-report-YYYY-MM-DDTHH-mm-ss.sssZ

`-s`, `--from` | The email address of the sender. | For example, `user@amazon.com`. | OPENSEARCH_FROM
`-r`, `--to` | The email address of the recipient. | For example, `user@amazon.com`. | OPENSEARCH_TO
`--smtphost` | The hostname of the SMTP server. | For example, `SMTP_HOST`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_HOST
`--smtpport` | The port for the SMTP connection. | For example, `SMTP_PORT`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_PORT
`--smtpsecure` | Specifies to use TLS when connecting to the server. | For example, `SMTP_SECURE`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_SECURE
`--smtpusername` | The SMTP username.| For example, `SMTP_USERNAME`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_USERNAME
`--smtppassword` | The SMTP password.| For example, `SMTP_PASSWORD`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_PASSWORD
`--subject` | The email subject text encased in quotes. | Can be any string. The default is "This is an email containing your dashboard report". | OPENSEARCH_EMAIL_SUBJECT

> `-h`, `--help` | Specifies to display the list of optional arguments from the command line. | N/A

Reviewer 2: note option is also added to add some message in email body https://github.com/rupal-bq/reporting-cli/blob/main/test/help.test.js#L34

```

### Example: Requesting a PDF file

The following command requests a PDF file and specifies the recipient's email address:

```
opensearch-reporting-cli -u https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d -a basic -c admin:Test@1234 -e ses -s <email address> -r <email address> -f pdf
```

Upon success, the file will be sent to the specified email address. The following image shows an example PDF report.

![PDF example]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/cli-pdf-report.png)

### Example: Requesting a CSV file

The following command generates a report that contains all table content in CSV format and sends the report to an email address using Amazon SES transport:

```
opensearch-reporting-cli -u https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d -f csv -a basic -c admin:Test1234 -e ses -s <email address> -r <email address>
```

Upon success, the email will be sent to the specified email address with the CSV file attached.

## Scheduling reports with the cron utility

> You can use the cron command-line utility to initiate a report request with the reporting CLI that runs periodically at any date or time interval. Follow the cron expression syntax to specify the date and time that precedes the command that you want to initiate.

Reviewer 5: Global comment: Is "reporting CLI" a proper noun? If so, make global edits for capitalization.

> To learn about the cron expression syntax, see [cron](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron).

Reviewer 5: Is wikipedia considered a primary source? If not, should we be linking to it?

Author: It's a Linux/Unix built-in utility. I chose wikipedia because it's not tied to a specific flavor of Linux. will ask the team. other options: Oracle Linux  - [Use crontab utility](https://docs.oracle.com/en/learn/oracle-linux-crontab/index.html). . .
Ubuntu [Cron how to](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CronHowto)

### Prerequisite

You need a machine with cron installed.

### Step 1: Install the reporting CLI

Install the Reporting CLI by running the following command:

```
npm i @opensearch-project/opensearch-reporting-cli
```

> ### Step 2: Specify the details for the report

Reviewer 5: Suggestion: "Specify the report details"

```
docker build -t opensearch-reporting-cli .
```

### Step 2: Create a private repository with Amazon ECR

You need to follow the instructions to create an image repository, see [Getting started with Amazon ECR using the AWS Management Console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/getting-started-console.html).

Give your repository the name `opensearch-reporting-cli`.

In addition to the Amazon ECR instructions, you need to make several adjustments for the Reporting CLI to function properly as described in the following steps in this procedure.

### Step 3: Run the push commands

You need to get several commands from the AWS ECR Console to run within the Dockerfile directory.

1. After you create your repository, select it from **Private repositories**.
1. Choose **view push commands**.
1. Copy and run each command shown in **Push commands for opensearch-reporting-cli** sequentially in the Dockerfile directory.

For more details about docker push commands, see [Pushing a Docker image](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/docker-push-ecr-image.html) in the Amazon ECR user guide.

> ### Step 4: Create a lambda function with the container image

Reviewer 5: Capitalize "lambda"

The following command requests a PDF file and specifies the recipient's email address:

```
opensearch-reporting-cli -u https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d -a basic -c admin:Test@1234 -e ses -s <email address> -r <email address> -f pdf
```

Upon success, the file will be sent to the specified email address. The following image shows an example PDF report.

![PDF example]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/cli-pdf-report.png)

### Example: Requesting a CSV file

The following command generates a report that contains all table content in CSV format and sends the report to an email address using Amazon SES transport:

```
opensearch-reporting-cli -u https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d -f csv -a basic -c admin:Test1234 -e ses -s <email address> -r <email address>
```

Upon success, the email will be sent to the specified email address with the CSV file attached.

## Automatically run reports with a cron job

You can run reports automatically by setting up a cron job. OpenSearch Reporting CLI supports any cron job use case, such as setting a specified time of day.

### Prerequisites

> You need a machine with cron installed and root access privileges.

Reviewer 6: crontab does not require root privileges to use

Reviewer 2: Thanks! I didn't know this.

### Step 1: Install the reporting CLI

Install the Reporting CLI by running the following command:

```
npm i @opensearch-project/opensearch-reporting-cli
```

### Step 2: Specify the details for the report

Open the crontab editor by running the following command:

```
crontab -e
```
In the crontab editor, enter the report request. For example, the following example shows a cron report that runs every day at 8am.

```

> 0 8 * * * opensearch-reporting-cli -u https://playground.opensearch.org/app/dashboards#/view/084aed50-6f48-11ed-a3d5-1ddbf0afc873 -e ses -s <sender_email> -r <recipient_email>

Reviewer 6: unrelated, is playground down? Playground link doesn't work on my end

Reviewer 2: url works for me

Author: works for me too.
![Screen Shot 2023-02-03 at 4 28 40 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/88908598/216734878-02085560-56d3-4cb0-b445-8b8273689d38.png)

```

## Scheduling reports with AWS Lambda

You can use AWS Lambda with the Reporting CLI tool to specify an AWS Lambda function to trigger the report generation.

> This requires that you use an AM64 system and Docker.

Reviewer 2: nit: AMD64

> This requires that you use an AM64 system and Docker.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This requires that you use an AMD64 system and Docker.
```

### Prerequisites

To use the Reporting CLI with AWS Lambda, you need to do the following preliminary steps.

- Get an AWS account. For instructions, see [Creating an AWS account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/accounts/latest/reference/manage-acct-creating.html) in the AWS Account Management reference guide.

> - Get a Dockerfile to assemble an image. For Docker instructions, see [Dockerfile reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/).

Reviewer 6: This prerequisite looks the same as "Copy the following sample configurations into a Dockerfile" in step 1?

- Set up an Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR). For instructions, see [Getting started with Amazon ECR using the AWS Management Console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/getting-started-console.html).

### Step 1: Create a container image with a Dockerfile

You need to assemble the image by running a Dockerfile. When you run the Dockerfile, it downloads the OpenSearch artifact required to use the Reporting CLI.

Copy the following sample configurations into a Dockerfile.

```dockerfile

> 

Reviewer 6: nit. unnecessary blank line

# Define function directory
ARG FUNCTION_DIR="/function"

# Base image of the docker container
FROM node:lts-slim as build-image

# Include global arg in this stage of the build
ARG FUNCTION_DIR

# AWS Lambda runtime dependencies
RUN apt-get update && \
    apt-get install -y \
        g++ \
        make \
        unzip \
        libcurl4-openssl-dev \
        autoconf \
        automake \
        libtool \
        cmake \
        python3 \
        libkrb5-dev \
        curl

# Copy function code
WORKDIR ${FUNCTION_DIR}
RUN curl -LJO https://artifacts.opensearch.org/reporting-cli/opensearch-reporting-cli-1.0.0.tgz
RUN tar -xzf opensearch-reporting-cli-1.0.0.tgz
RUN mv package/* .
RUN npm install && npm install aws-lambda-ric

> # Build Stage 2: Copy Build Stage 1 files in to Stage 2. Install chromium dependencies and chromium.

Reviewer 6: comment is inaccurate: it installs google-chrome, not chromium, then removes google-chrome to keep the dependencies. Maybe
```suggestion
# Build Stage 2: Copy Build Stage 1 files in to Stage 2. Install chrome dependencies.
```

RUN apt-get update \
    && apt-get install -y wget gnupg \
    && wget -q -O - https://dl-ssl.google.com/linux/linux_signing_key.pub | apt-key add - \
    && sh -c 'echo "deb [arch=amd64] http://dl.google.com/linux/chrome/deb/ stable main" >> /etc/apt/sources.list.d/google.list' \
    && apt-get update \
    && apt-get install -y google-chrome-stable fonts-ipafont-gothic fonts-wqy-zenhei fonts-thai-tlwg fonts-kacst fonts-freefont-ttf libxss1 \
      --no-install-recommends \
    && apt-get remove -y google-chrome-stable \
    && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*

ENTRYPOINT ["/usr/local/bin/npx", "aws-lambda-ric"]

ENV HOME="/tmp"
CMD [ "/function/src/index.handler" ]

```

Next, run the following build command within the same directory that contains the Dockerfile:

```
docker build -t opensearch-reporting-cli .
```

### Step 2: Create a private repository with Amazon ECR

Follow the instructions in the Amazon ECR user guide to create a repository with the name `opensearch-reporting-cli`. For instructions, see [Getting started with Amazon ECR using the AWS Management Console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/getting-started-console.html).

> In addition to the Amazon EC2 instructions, you need to make the following adjustments for the Reporting CLI to function properly:

Reviewer 6: EC2->ECR?
```suggestion
In addition to the Amazon ECR instructions, you need to make the following adjustments for the Reporting CLI to function properly:
```

> Navigate to the test function **Configuration** tab to modify two required settings.

Reviewer 2: Please remove this part as these are lambda configuration (not applicable to ECR) and already mentioned in step 4

- Make sure to set **Timeout** to at least 5 minutes to allow the reporting CLI to generate the report.

> - Change the setting for **Ephemeral storage** to 1024MB. The default setting is not a sufficient storage amount.

Reviewer 6: maybe 
```suggestion
- Change the setting for **Ephemeral storage** to at least 1024MB. The default setting is not a sufficient storage amount.
```

Maybe some customers will have extra complex dashboards and 1024MB is not enough to load it.

And is this supposed to be here? I also see similar things in step 4

{: .note }

### Step 3: Run the push commands

> You need to get several commands from the AWS EC2 Console to run within the Dockerfile directory, as shown in the following image:

Reviewer 6: Same as above, EC2 -> ECR?

> ![Amazon ECR console view push commands]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/push-commands.png)

Reviewer 2: this image is blur and has account details. I don't think we should share this. (or at least blur the account details) If you want to add reference for push commands, you can use https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/docker-push-ecr-image.html

Author: i recreated a clean image, but I like the idea to leave it out and provide the reference doc.

> ![Amazon ECR console view push commands]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/push-commands.png)

Reviewer 6: somehow the image is very blurry on my side

Author: ok maybe i can get a clean one from Rupal. thanks

1. In the AWS ECR console, go to **Repositories** and choose **opensearch-reporting-cli**.
1. Choose **view push commands**.
1. In **Push commands for opensearch-reporting-cli**, copy and run each command sequentially in the Dockerfile directory.

> If you run the push commands from a directory that does not contain the Dockerfile, you will get an error.

Reviewer 6: I don't think this is true, the push command is adding a tag to existing docker image then push, it doesn't use Dockerfile anymore. Dockerfile was required for `docker build` in step 1.

Reviewer 2: 2nd in push commands is build command. This applies for that but build command is already mentioned above so not required

Author: ok sounds good

{: .note }

### Step 4: Create a lambda function with the container image

1. In **Select container image**, select the container `opensearch-reporting-cli` from the list, and then choose **Select image**.
1. Specify a name for the function.
1. In **Architecture**, choose **x86_64**.
1. Choose **Create function**.
1. Go to **Lambda function > Configuration > General configuration> Edit timeout** and set the timeout in lambda to 5 minutes.
1. Set the memory size to at least 1024MB.

> 1. Next, test the function either by providing fixed values or variable values in a JSON file.

Reviewer 2: I think someone who has no context won't understand fixed/varible easily here. maybe "test the function by providing values in JSON file or lambda environment variables"

Reviewer 2: fyi: this testing is just making sure setup is correct. it doesn't matter if someone use json or env var

- If the function contains fixed values, such as email address you do not need a JSON file. You can specify an environment variable in AWS Lambda.

> - If the function takes a variable key-pair value, then you need to specify the values in a JSON file.

Reviewer 6: 1. Does JSON file mean the JSON object in POST request body? If so i think "file" might be confusing because it doesn't need to be saved as a file on disk
2. Does it follow the same naming convention as environment variables?

Reviewer 2: > 1. Does JSON file mean the JSON object in POST request body? If so i think "file" might be confusing because it doesn't need to be saved as a file on disk

Yes, file should be removed. 

> 2. Does it follow the same naming convention as environment variables?

follows same naming convention as command options

  "to": "recipient@amazon.com", 
  "subject": "Test lambda docker image"
}
```

### Step 5: Add the trigger to start the AWS Lambda function

Set the trigger to start running the report. AWS Lambda can use any AWS service as a trigger, such as SNS, S3, or an AWS CloudWatch EventBridge.

1. In the **Triggers** section, choose **Add trigger**.
1. Select a trigger from the list. For example, you can set an AWS CloudWatch Event. To learn more about Amazon ECR events you can schedule, see [Sample events from Amazon ECR](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/ecr-eventbridge.html#ecr-eventbridge-bus).
1. Choose **Test** to initiate the function.

### (Optional) Step 6: Add the role permission for Amazon SES

1. Select **Configuration** and choose **Excecution role**.
1. In **Summary**, choose **Permissions**.
1. Select **{}JSON** to open the JSON policy editor.
1. Add the permissions for the Amazon SES resource that you want to use.

The following example provides the resource ARN for the send email action:

```json
{
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "ses:SendEmail",
                "ses:SendRawEmail"
            ],

>             "Resource": "arn:aws:ses:us-west-2:840298398745:identity/username@amazon.com"

Reviewer 2: please remove account number 840298398745

Reviewer 2: nit: formatting for this json. Remove extra tabs.

>         }

Reviewer 6: nit. unnecessary indentation

`-s`, `--from` | The email address of the sender. | For example, `user@amazon.com`. | OPENSEARCH_FROM
`-r`, `--to` | The email address of the recipient. | For example, `user@amazon.com`. | OPENSEARCH_TO
`--smtphost` | The hostname of the SMTP server. | For example, `SMTP_HOST`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_HOST
`--smtpport` | The port for the SMTP connection. | For example, `SMTP_PORT`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_PORT
`--smtpsecure` | Specifies to use TLS when connecting to the server. | For example, `SMTP_SECURE`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_SECURE
`--smtpusername` | The SMTP username.| For example, `SMTP_USERNAME`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_USERNAME
`--smtppassword` | The SMTP password.| For example, `SMTP_PASSWORD`. | OPENSEARCH_SMTP_PASSWORD
`--subject` | The email subject text encased in quotes. | Can be any string. The default is "This is an email containing your dashboard report". | OPENSEARCH_EMAIL_SUBJECT

> --note | The email body, either a string or a path to a text file. | The default note is "Hi,\\nHere is the latest report!" | OPENSEARCH_EMAIL_NOTE

Reviewer 2: nit: `--note`

To set the environment variables in Linux, use the following command:

```
export NAME=VALUE
```

Each line should use the format `NAME=VALUE`.
Each line that starts with a hashtag (#) is considered to be a comment.
Quotation marks (") don't get any special handling.

Values from the command line argument have higher priority than the environment file. For example, if you add the file name as *test* in the *.env* file and also add the `--filename report` command option, the generated report's name will be *report*.
{: .note }

### Example: Requesting a PNG report with environment variables set

The following command requests a report with basic authentication in PNG format:

```
opensearch-reporting-cli --url https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d --format png --auth basic --credentials admin:admin
```

Upon success, the report will download to the current directory.

### Using Amazon SES to request an email with a report attachment

To use Amazon SES as the email transport mechanism, the following prerequisites apply:

> - If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disabled temporarily. The sender's email address must be verified by [Amazon SES](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/). The [AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-welcome.html) is required to interact with Amazon SES. To configure basic settings used by the AWS CLI, see [Quick configuration with `aws configure`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html#cli-configure-quickstart-config) in the AWS Command Line Interface user guide.

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove `If a URL contains an exclamation point (!), then the history expansion needs to be disabled temporarily.` from SES section. This applies in all scenarios and already mentioned below

```
opensearch-reporting-cli --url https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d
```

To modify the body of your email, you can edit the *index.hbs* file.

### Example: Sending a report to an email address with SMTP

To send a report to an email address with SMTP transport, you need to set the options `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_HOST`, `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_PORT`, `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_USER`, `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_PASSWORD`, and `OPENSEARCH_SMTP_SECURE` in your .env file.

Once the transport options are set in your .env file, you can send the email using the following command:

```
opensearch-reporting-cli --url https://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/7adfa750-4c81-11e8-b3d7-01146121b73d --transport smtp --from <sender_email_id> --to <recipient_email_id>
```

You can choose to set options using either your *.env* file or the command line argument values in any combination. Make sure to specify all required values to avoid errors.

To modify the body of your email, you can edit the *index.hbs* file.

> ## Environment variable limitations

Reviewer 2: These are not env var limitation. maybe just Limitation is ok bcoz some are limitations due to dependencies and some due to system
